Travis Finlayson
THF17
answers.txt

Date of Git Lab tutorials: 10/3/2020
Date of GitHub account creation:  4/8/2020
username: travisfinlayson
repository: https://github.com/travisfinlayson/assignment2

CEN4020-Fall is a contributor and should have access.

1.
Create status.txt to track git status
 Committer: Travis Henry Finlayson <finlayso@linprog7.cs.fsu.edu>

 1 file changed, 5 insertions(+)
 create mode 100644 docs/status.txt

2. There have been 9 commits done to the respository.  This number can be found
in a couple of different ways.  The command 'git shortlog' will return the user
as well as the number of commits from that user.   I made 3 commits and Estaban
Parra made 6 commits.
The command 'git rev-list --all --count' will return the number of commits made 
on all branches of the repository: 9

3.  I used 'git blame -- README.md' to show the time and modifications made to
the README.md file.  The last modification was at 2020-10-04 14:05:39 by Travis 
Finlayson.

4. Creating a new branch allows developers to work on a project without changing 
anything that was committed to the main branch.  This gives programmers the
freedom to make changes without worrying about changing any code that other
programmers are utilizing.
Branches are also useful for working in parallel.  If two programmers create new
branches then they can each work on a different component of the software
simultaneously.  These branches can then later be merged together after their
individual components are completed.

5. 'git log' shows all of the commits that have been made on the current branch.
'git status', on the other hand, describes what branch you are working on, where
on the branch you are (in relation to the origin/master), and what file changes
have been made that haven't been committed yet.

6. To see the commits made that involve "Vehicle.h" I used the command 'git log
-- Vehicle.h'

7. Finding the word "file" in commit messages I used: 'git log --grep="file"'

8. i. Inheritance means that one object or class is derived from another,
retaining all of its attributes and methods.  Additional attributes and methods
can be added to the derived class, but at its base, it must have all of the
attributes and methods that the parent class has.
ii. Polymorphism is ability of a method to do different things depending on the
object that it is acting upon.  This means that the method of a parent object
can be used on a child object but have a different implementation.
iii. Encapsulation in OOP is the idea of bundling data and methods within a
single object.  It is also used to hide sensitive information by making certain
values and methods accessible only to the object itself and not to a user.
Instead, users can change certain values by only using getter and setter methods that can
be set to prevent data from being changed to illegal values.

9. In the "Dictator and Lieutenants" workflow there are "lieutenant" repositories
that each merge and resolve conflicts for some, but not all of the developers.  This
is different than the "integration manager" which is a single repository that
merges and resolves conflicts for ALL developers.

10. In a "Centralized" workflow, each developer has to pull changes from the
central repository and then resolve all conflicts themselves before pushing
back.  If there are 100 people working on the same repository, this can get
chaotic very quickly.  If everyone is pushing and pulling at the same time, then
it is almost assured that conflicts will arise and developers will spend a much
greater amount of time resolving those conflicts.  
Using "Dictator and Lieutenants" workflow would be much better for a group of
this size.  All changes would be pulled from a central repository, but any
pushes would be made to the lieutenant repositories which would merge and
resolve conflicts, and finally by the dictator repository which would merge and
resolve conflicts pushed by the lieutenants.  The dictator would then push these
changes back to the central repository. This would help ensure that developers
are not trying to resolve conflicts themselves and that merges and conflict
resolution are performed in a more organized fashion.
